{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red214\green27\blue23;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 MQ-7 Carbon Monoxide (Propane/gas) sensor\
*** I purchased this\
URL to part:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9403"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9403}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This is a simple-to-use {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_monoxide"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Carbon Monoxide (CO)}} sensor, suitable for sensing CO concentrations in the air. The MQ-7 can detect CO-gas concentrations anywhere from 20 to 2000ppm.\
This sensor has a high sensitivity and fast response time. The sensor\'92s output is an analog resistance. The drive circuit is very simple; all you need to do is power the heater coil with 5V, add a load resistance, and connect the output to an ADC.\
This sensor comes in a package similar to our MQ-3 alcohol sensor, and can be used with the breakout board below.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
URL to wiring sheet:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wiring.org.co/learning/basics/airqualitymq135.html"}}{\fldrslt http://wiring.org.co/learning/basics/airqualitymq135.html}}\
\
MQ-4 Methane (Natural Gas) sensor\
*** I purchased this\
URL to part:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9404"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9404}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This is a simple-to-use {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compressed_natural_gas"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
compressed natural gas (CNG)}} sensor, suitable for sensing natural gas (composed of mostly Methane [CH4]) concentrations in the air. The MQ-4 can detect natural gas concentrations anywhere from 200 to 10000ppm.\
This sensor has a high sensitivity and fast response time. The sensor\'92s output is an analog resistance. The drive circuit is very simple; all you need to do is power the heater coil with 5V, add a load resistance, and connect the output to an ADC.\
This sensor comes in a package similar to our MQ-3 alcohol sensor, and can be used with the breakout board below.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
URL to wiring sheet:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wiring.org.co/learning/basics/airqualitymq135.html"}}{\fldrslt http://wiring.org.co/learning/basics/airqualitymq135.html}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs60 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
Digital Luminosity/Lux/Light Sensor Breakout\
*** I purchased this
\f0\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 URL to part:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.adafruit.com/product/439"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.adafruit.com/product/439}}\
\
URL to code examples\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://learn.adafruit.com/photocells/using-a-photocell"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://learn.adafruit.com/photocells/using-a-photocell}}\
\
URL to git repo for code:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/adafruit/TSL2561-Arduino-Library"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://github.com/adafruit/TSL2561-Arduino-Library}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
The TSL2561 luminosity sensor is an advanced digital light sensor, ideal for use in a wide range of light situations. Compared to low cost CdS cells, this sensor is more precise, allowing for exact flux calculations and can be configured for different gain/timing ranges to detect light ranges from up to 0.1 - 40,000+ Lux on the fly. The best part of this sensor is that it contains both infrared and full spectrum diodes! That means you can separately measure infrared, full-spectrum or human-visible light. Most sensors can only detect one or the other, which does not accurately represent what human eyes see (since we cannot perceive the IR light that is detected by most photo diodes)\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ** The reason for this sensor is to add a cool functionality to our device for detecting if the light in the room is left on. I am not completely sure if we will go this far into the project but the task automated would be to turn the light off if on to save electricity.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 ADC (Analog to digital converter)\
*** I purchased this\
URL to part:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.adafruit.com/products/1083"}}{\fldrslt http://www.adafruit.com/products/1083}}\
\
URL to libraries for how to use this:\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_ADS1X15"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_ADS1X15}}\
\
Many of the sensors used in this project output an analogue signal. The Raspberry Pi cannot read these signals directly, so to convert these signals to digital, you need an ADC (analogue to digital converter). I recommend the MCP3008 which has 8 separate analogue inputs, so you only need one in order to read the values for all your sensors.\
\
Honeywell HIH6130 Temperature/Humidity sensor\
*** I purchased this\
URL to part: \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/HIH6130-021-001/480-3651-2-ND/2704701?WT.srch=1&WT.medium=cpc&WT.mc_id=IQ62057691-VQ2-g-VQ6-53963505795-VQ15-1t1-VQ16-c"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/HIH6130-021-001/480-3651-2-ND/2704701?WT.srch=1&WT.medium=cpc&WT.mc_id=IQ62057691-VQ2-g-VQ6-53963505795-VQ15-1t1-VQ16-c}}\
\
This is a very good temperature which is well documented. The size and persission is perfect for what we are trying to do. \
\
\
*** Everything below this point are sensors I did some research on. I either could not find these sensors in the US or read some bad reviews on them. The second sensor in this list that does temperature and altitude would have been great but it is capable of going below 0 degrees and since we are focused on "indoors" I felt like we did not need that sensor. \
\
*** I am thinking we should use a micro controler such as the Arduino Uno\
URL to part:\
\
or similar rather than the Raspberry PI. The reason for this thought is mostly because of the cost of the device. Since you can purchase an arduino for about half of the cost of the PI and can set it up on a net work for $17 using XBees it is a cheaper product that can preform what is needed. The Ras PI is a great option and lots of work has been done in this exact area with the Air PI but the cost factor makes it a little less appealing if this were to become an actual product. We can further discuss this as a team though. \
\
AirPI\
URL to part:\
https://www.tindie.com/products/tmhrtly/airpi-kit/\
URL to repo:\
https://github.com/tomhartley/AirPi#start-of-content\
URL to datassheets\
http://airpi.es/step1.php\
\
Cobbler\
URL to part:\
https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-pi-cobbler-kit/overview\
\
(Requires soldering together, but makes life a lot easier, because you can plug it in directly to the PI.\
\
Weather Sensors\
DHT22 - humidity & Temperature sensor\
URL to part:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.adafruit.com/products/385"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.adafruit.com/products/385}}\
\
This sensor is great for relative temperature and humidity readings. We can choose between this temp/humidity sensor and the one below which does not do humidity but does do altitude which could also be useful for some homes.\
\'95 This sensor is digital, and so does not require an ADC.\
\
BMP085 -pressure and temperature sensor\
URL to part:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.adafruit.com/product/391"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.adafruit.com/product/391}}\
\
The BMP085 sensor measures both barometric pressure and temperature. While still calibrating the sensors, we discovered that the BMP08's temperature sensor is slightly more accurate than the DHT22's sensor, and it goes below 0 degrees as well. \
\'95 This sensor is digital, and so does not require an ADC.\
\
Humidity Sensor Breakout - HIH-4030 $16.95\
URL to part:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9569"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9569}}\
\
Description: \
This is a breakout board for Honeywell\'92s HIH-4030 humidity sensor. The HIH-4030 measures relative humidity (%RH) and delivers it as an analog output voltage. You can connect the output of the sensor directly to an ADC on a micro controller; and, thanks to the sensor\'92s near linear voltage output, the data is very easy to process.\
*** This is a great and easy to use humidity sensor in case we go with the pressure and temperature sensor above. It will allow us to take a humidity reading easily and quickly.\
\
*** This is the site where information, instructions, and sheets can be seen on this humidity sensor.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sensing.honeywell.com/humidicon-digital-humidity-temperature-sensors?cid=pd_1003&gclid=COmxpeP8n8ECFZSDfgod-TAAnw"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 https://sensing.honeywell.com/humidicon-digital-humidity-temperature-sensors?cid=pd_1003&gclid=COmxpeP8n8ECFZSDfgod-TAAnw}}\
\
Gas Sensors\
TGS 2600 - General Air Quality - Requires ADC \
*** I am unable to find this sensor in the US. I am not sure we need it for the project but it would handle a few different areas for the price of one. Maybe we can keep looking if it is necessary.\
\
This sensor responds to various gases associated with poor air quality and the presence of smoke including methane, iso-butane, ethanol and hydrogen. It consists of a 4 pin canister, 2 of which power the heating element for it (5V), and 2 of which are the connections to the sensing resistor (its resistance is proportional to the air quality). However, the output given by this sensor is analogue, so you needs an ADC (see above) to use it properly.\
\'95 Output is analogue, will require an ADC\
}